Documentation ag (#72)
Rappsilber-Laboratory/XiSearch: README.md

xiSEARCH is a flexible search engine that allows for extensive configuration of the search options and of the search scoring methods in crosslink identification. Nevertheless, its design suits best data acquired at high resolution in MS1 and MS2 - in the Rappsilber lab, we acquire with 120k resolution in ms1 and 60k resolution ms2. Currently, xiSEARCH does not support MS3 approaches.

The xiSEARCH algorithm is described in detail in [Mendez, Fischer *et al.* Mol. Sys. Bio. 2019](https://www.embopress.org/doi/full/10.15252/msb.20198994). The xiSEARCH scoring function is 
made 
up of several terms 

> accounting for the goodness of fit of the spectra to the peptide pair selected from the database, including fragment mass error, percentage intensity explained, number of fragments, number of crosslinked fragments.

Reviewer: Why the newlines?

Author: ah i don't know what happened i must have been clicking around

Author: let me fix

> ![Xialgorithm](https://i.imgur.com/lEfpS5F.png)

Reviewer: I would rather create a `doc` subfolder  and link to an image there e.g.
[Xialgorithm](doc/algorithm.png)
or to an github upload
! [xi_search_strategy] (https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/6330440/202421641-69fa3021-f53e-4eb1-9923-c9c740aca0e2.jpg)
![xi_search_strategy](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/6330440/202421641-69fa3021-f53e-4eb1-9923-c9c740aca0e2.jpg)

Author: is that github link already correct?

Reviewer: it should be

### The interface

> The interface provides several tabs. The first two tabs are the main ones for configuring the search. The first one (Files) defines the input and output, i.e. the peaklist and fasta files to be search and where to write the result. The second one (Parameters) configures the actual search. The third one (Feedback) provides the log of the current search and provides a means to contact the developers. The fourth tab contains the change log/Version history. 

Reviewer: Sorry my error
```suggestion
The interface provides several tabs. The first two tabs are the main ones for configuring the search. The first one (Files) defines the input and output, i.e. the peaklist and fasta files to be search and where to write the result. The second one (Parameters) configures the actual search. The third one (Feedback) provides the log of the current search and provides a means to contact the developers. The fourth tab contains the change log/version history. 
```

| BS2G (Large Scale)      | BS2G crosslinker, K/S/T/Y/Nterm to  K/S/T/Y/Nterm                                                |
| BS2G (Small Scale)    | BS2G crosslinker, K/S/T/Y/Nterm to  K/S/T/Y/Nterm                                                |
| SDA    | SDA crosslinker, K/S/T/Y/Nterm to any amino acid                                                 |
| BS3 (Large Scale)    | BS3 crosslinker, K/S/T/Y/Nterm to  K/S/T/Y/Nterm. Also for DSS.                                  |
| BS3 (Small Scale)    | BS3 crosslinker, K/S/T/Y/Nterm to  K/S/T/Y/Nterm. Also for DSS.                                  |
| DSSO (Large Scale)    | DSSO crosslinker,  K/S/T/Y/Nterm to  K/S/T/Y/Nterm  with cleavable stub fragment identification  |
| DSSO (Small Scale)    | DSSO crosslinker, K/S/T/Y/Nterm to  K/S/T/Y/Nterm with cleavable stub fragment                   |
| EDC    | EDC crosslinker, K/S/T/Y, Nterm to E/D/Cterm. No modifications defined.                          |
| DSBU (Large Scale)    | DSBU crosslinker, K/S/T/Y/Nterm with cleavable stub fragment                                     |

> | DSBU (Small Scale)    | DSBU crosslinker, K/S/T/Y/Nterm with cleavable stub fragment                               <br/> |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| DSBU (Small Scale)    | DSBU crosslinker, K/S/T/Y/Nterm with cleavable stub fragment                                      |
```

Reviewer: or if you want a seperation to the last two a new line?
```suggestion
| DSBU (Small Scale)    | DSBU crosslinker, K/S/T/Y/Nterm with cleavable stub fragment                                |
|                               |                                                 |
```
?

Below is a list of settings that can be configured in a text config and their description.

> All possible options and their default values are also found in the file 
> "src/main/java/rappsilber/data/csv/BasicConfigEntries.
> conf".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All possible options and their default values are also found in the BasicConfigEntries.conf file.
```

| topmgcpeaks:150                        | how many alpha peptide candidates will be considered to find beta peptide.                                                                                          | Yes                            |
| topmgxhits:10                          | how many combinations of alpha and beta peptides will be considered for final scoring                                                                               | Yes                            |
| MAX_MODIFICATION_PER_PEPTIDE:3         | limit on how many modifications to consider per peptide. Both variable and fixed modifications count against the limit                                              | Yes                            |

> | MAX_MODIFICATION_PER_PEPTIDE:3         | limit on how many modifications to consider per peptide. Both variable and fixed modifications count against the limit                                              | Yes                            |

Reviewer: that looks duplicated
```suggestion |
```

The "BasicConfigEntries.conf" contains all the selectable config values. In this file new entries for crosslinker, enzymes, modifications and losses can be freely defined. The file contains sections for crosslinker, modifications, losses, ions,enzymes and custom settings. Each section has a short description on how to add new entries.

Editing this file changes the options in the dropdown menu of the interface.

Additionally there is a file "BasicConfig.conf" containing default values for settings not exposed in the interface.

## running xiSEARCH from command line

xiSEARCH may be launched from the command line specifying database and config file. Often, a config file is created in the interface and then used in launching searches from command line, for example as cluster jobs.

    java -Xmx60G -cp /path/to/XiSearch.jar rappsilber.applications.Xi --config=MyConfig.config --peaks=peakfile.mgf --fasta=database.fasta -output=MyOutput.csv --locale=en

will launch a search on peakfile.mgf with database.fasta and MyConfig.conf and 60Gb of RAM. Command line options are available

    java -cp /path/to/XiSearch.jar rappsilber.applications.Xi --help

> If there is more than one peaklist to be searched, the .mgf files should be zipped together and the zip file should be given as the option of --peaks .

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If there is more than one peaklist to be searched, the .mgf files can either be zipped together and the zip file be given as the option of --peaks= or several --peaks= options can be given.

Also several fasta files can be given, by providing  a --fasta= argument per fasta file
```

     loss:CleavableCrosslinkerPeptide:MASS:0;Name:0
     loss:CleavableCrosslinkerPeptide:MASS:82.04186;NAME:S

#### Changing or adding new entries to the graphical config interface
The options in the dropdown menu of the interface may be edited according to your needs. 

> The "BasicConfigEntries.conf" contains all the selectable config values. In this file new entries 
> for crosslinker, enzymes, modifications and losses can be freely defined. The file contains sections for crosslinker,
> modifications, losses, ions,enzymes and custom settings. Each section has a short description on how to add new entries.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The "BasicConfigEntries.conf" contains all the selectable config values. In this file new entries for crosslinker, enzymes, modifications and losses can be freely defined. The file contains sections for crosslinker, modifications, losses, ions,enzymes and custom settings. Each section has a short description on how to add new entries.
```

Additionally there is a file "BasicConfig.conf" containing default values for settings not exposed in the interface.

Both of these are default files that change the options in the dropdown menu of the interface.

## running xiSEARCH from command line

> xiSEARCH may be launched from the command line specifying database and config file. Often, a config file is created 
> in the interface and then used in launching searches from command line, for example as cluster jobs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
xiSEARCH may be launched from the command line specifying database and config file. Often, a config file is created in the interface and then used in launching searches from command line, for example as cluster jobs.
```

    java -Xmx60G -cp /path/to/XiSearch.jar rappsilber.applications.Xi --config=MyConfig.config --peaks=peakfile.mgf --fasta=database.fasta -output=MyOutput.csv --locale=en

> will launch a search on peakfile.mgf with database.fasta and MyConfig.conf and 60Gb of RAM. Command line options are 
> available

Reviewer: ```suggestion
will launch a search on peakfile.mgf with database.fasta and MyConfig.conf and 60Gb of RAM. Command line options are available
```

     loss:CleavableCrosslinkerPeptide:MASS:0;Name:0
     loss:CleavableCrosslinkerPeptide:MASS:82.04186;NAME:S

#### Changing or adding new entries to the graphical config interface
The options in the dropdown menu of the interface may be edited according to your needs. 
The "BasicConfigEntries.conf" contains all the selectable config values. In this file new entries 
for crosslinker, enzymes, modifications and losses can be freely defined. The file contains sections for crosslinker,
modifications, losses, ions,enzymes and custom settings. Each section has a short description on how to add new entries.

Additionally there is a file "BasicConfig.conf" containing default values for settings not exposed in the interface.

> Both of these are default files that change the options in the dropdown menu of the interface.

Reviewer: That is not quite true. Settings in BasicConfig.conf do not show up in the interface at all. So any setting there has no effect on the interface (unless you translate the basic-config into the text config) but affect the search as such

     loss:CleavableCrosslinkerPeptide:MASS:0;Name:0
     loss:CleavableCrosslinkerPeptide:MASS:82.04186;NAME:S

#### Changing or adding new entries to the graphical config interface

> The options in the dropdown menu of the interface may be edited according to your needs. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The options in the drop-down menus and lists in the interface may be edited according to your needs. 
```

Author: fixed in new commit
